.. _2.8:

2.8 Other research outputs and related publications
==============================

======== ==========
Required Repeatable
======== ==========
No       Yes
======== ==========

**Definition**

A link in the form of a persistent identifier (such as a DOI) is strongly recommended. If a DOI is not available, a standard URL is acceptable.

For biospecimens, please select RelatedItemType as PhysicalObject.

* Data quality statement
* Analytic code
* CONSORT statement
* Clinical practice guidelines/recommendations emerging from the trial
* Data management plan
* Unpublished reports 
* Statistical analysis plan
* Publications, preprints, journal articles and abstracts
* Related datasets
* Case Report Forms/ Data Collection Forms
* Biospecimens

If requested, we can provide an example per research output and related publication type.

*Metadata fields:*

.. contents:: :local:

.. rubric:: Example DataCite XML

.. code:: xml

  <subjects>
    <subject xml:lang="en" subjectScheme="MeSH" schemeURI="http://id.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/" valueURI="https://id.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/D001794" classificationCode="D001794">Blood pressure</subject>
  </subject>

.. _step11:

ANZCTR Step 11 - What supporting documents are/will be available?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 0-n

**Input type:** Text from list

**Example input:** Study protocol

**Controlled vocabulary source:**

From ANZCTR data field explanation:
* No other documents available
* Study protocol
* Statistical analysis plan
* Informed consent form
* Clinical study report
* Ethical approval
* Analytic code
* Other (please specify)

**Notes:**

.. _step11:

ANZCTR Step 11 - How or where can supporting documents be obtained?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 1

**Input type:** Text

**Example input:** https://doi.org/10.1080/15588742.2015.1017687

**Controlled vocabulary source:**

**Notes:**

This field can contain any text, but using DOI links to the supporting documents is recommended.

Consider using ANZCTR Step 12 - Summary results for publications, preprints, journal articles, and abstracts, unpublished reports and clinical practice guidelines

.. _20:

DataCite 20 RelatedItem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 0-n

**Input type:** Text

**Example input:**

**Controlled vocabulary source:**

**Notes:**

.. _20.b:

DataCite 20.b relationType 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 1

**Input type:** Text from list

**Example input:** https://id.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/D001794

**Controlled vocabulary source:**

From the DataCite metadata schema

* IsCitedBy Cites
* IsSupplementTo
* IsSupplementedBy
* IsContinuedBy
* Continues
* IsDescribedBy
* Describes
* HasMetadata
* IsMetadataFor
* HasVersion
* IsVersionOf
* IsNewVersionOf
* IsPreviousVersionO
* IsPartOf
* HasPart
* IsPublishedIn
* IsReferencedBy
* References
* IsDocumentedBy
* Documents
* IsCompiledBy
* Compiles
* IsVariantFormOf
* IsOriginalFormOf 
* IsIdenticalTo
* IsReviewedBy
* Reviews
* IsDerivedFrom
* IsSourceOf
* IsRequiredBy
* Requires
* IsObsoletedBy
* Obsoletes

**Notes:** Use "IsDerivedFrom" for biospecimens

.. _20.1:

DataCite 20.1 relatedItemIdentifier
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 0-1

**Input type:** Text

**Example input:** https://doi.org/10.1080/15588742.2015.1017687

**Controlled vocabulary source:** Nil

**Notes:** If relatedItemIdentifier is provided, an identical 12. RelatedIdentifier is strongly recommended for indexing.

.. _20.1.a:

DataCite 20.1.a relatedItemIdentifierType
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 0-1

**Input type:** https://doi.org/10.1080/15588742.2015.1017687

**Example input:** D001794

**Controlled vocabulary source:** From the DataCite metadata schema

* ARK 
* arXiv 
* Bibcode
* DOI
* EAN13
* EISSN
* Handle
* IGSN
* ISBN
* ISSN
* ISTC
* LISSN
* LSID
* PMID
* PURL
* UPC
* URL
* URN
* w3id

**Notes:** If relatedItemIdentifier is provided, an identical 12. RelatedIdentifier is strongly recommended for indexing.