.. _4.2:

4.2 Data sharing policy
==============================

======== ==========
Required Repeatable
======== ==========
Yes      Yes
======== ==========

**Definition:**

A policy statement and/or set of procedures that addresses secondary use of the dataset. This would commonly be presented as a publicly accessible document or webpage that details items such as the following:

* Governance roles and responsibilities
* Regulatory requirements (e.g. legal, ethical, funding)
* Requirements for requesting data access (e.g. procedures, time frames, costs)
* Requirements for management and handling of shared data (e.g. storage and disposal, reporting)

Data sharing policies are broad in nature and represent the general position of the data custodian regarding sharing of the dataset. It is common for a specific data sharing agreement to be signed by the requestor and custodian prior to the release of data in response to a data request. Data sharing agreements are contracts between two or more parties that articulate the specific terms and conditions for the sharing of data for a specific purpose. The data sharing policy may be cited in the terms of the data sharing agreement if required.

See also Permitted uses [4.1] and Rights/Licence [4.3].

**Notes:** This field is incomplete and will be updated according to HeSANDA Nominated Trials completing the ANZCTR Data Sharing Statement. For information on how to fill out the ANZCTR Data Sharing Statement, please refer to the ARDC's  `Guidance for HeSANDA Nominated Trials completing the ANZCTR Data Sharing Statement <https://documentation.ardc.edu.au/rda/guidance-for-hesanda-nominated-trials-completing-t>`_. 

DataCite 16 Rights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 0-n

**Input type:** Free text

**Example input:** 

**Controlled vocabulary source:** Nil

**Notes:**

No example input is given as a data sharing policy for sensitive and non-open data is bespoke to an organisation and/or dataset.

If the data sharing policy is lengthy, consider hosting it on an organisationl website and using DataCite 16.a rightsURI to share the link to
the data sharing policy.

.. _16.a:

DataCite 16.a rightsURI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Occurrences:** 0-1

**Input type:** Free text

**Example input:** https://www.holt.edu.au/data-sharing-policy

**Controlled vocabulary source:** Nil

**Notes:**
